1.difference between java and javascript?

java is object oriented programming langauge whreas javascript is object based scripting language.
java applications can run on any virtual machine or browser whereas javascript code used to run only on browser now it can run on server via node.js
object of java is classbased whereas in javascript it is prototype based
java supports multithreading whre as javascript is singlethreaded language
java used for mainly backend whereas javascript used for frontend and backend also.
java requires jdk to run the code whreas javascript only needs text editor and browser console

2.multithreaded vs singlthreaded

singlethreaded: only one line of code can execute at a time
Multithreading is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. means operating system has the ability to enable more than one user at a time without requiring multiple copies of a program running on the computer.

3. what is ecmascript in javascript
European Computer Manufacturer's Association.
ecmascript is a specification which is blueprint of creating a scripting language. and javascript is a implementation of that blueprint. It is a trademark scripting language specification.

4.How javascript works?
Everything in javascript happens inside the execution context. execution context is like a box container which has two parts first one is memory which is also calale dvariable environment where all the variables are stored, second one is code(thread of execution) where all the code is executed line by line.
javascript is a synchronous single threaded languge. single threaded means execute one line at a given time. synchronous means executed code in some specific order. the next line will be executed after the completion of current line.

5.hoisting of variables and functions
 How web works?

 how web page are rendered on screen, how all things happened behind the scene, so computers connected to web are called clients and server.clients means the your pc,mobile or laptop which is connected to wifi and browsers are avilable on client machine.
 so clients and servers have their on ip address. servers are computers that stores the webpages and daabases,app etc. when client want to access the webpages the copy of the webpages are downloaded from server to client machines.

 so, when the client type www.github.com and entered the key, client give the request to browser that hey i want to render this website. so every website has DNS address, so browser goes to DNS server and find the real address of that server. after recieving the DNS address it send the http request to server where the webpages are stored.if the webpages available on that server then server send the data into small chunks called packets to client, these packets have client ip address and server ip address. data sent between client and server using tcp/ip connection. the browser assembles the all packets and display it to you as whole webpage.
the response from server is in html format so browser creates a dom and diplays on screen. so often html files contains link and script tag. it sens the request for css and javscript file to server

IP address is look like 64.67.213.30.it is not easy to remember that's why DNS server invented.